Initial first pass at drafing a Chamber of Commerce Business Application Process (#7)
woodcrest-university/community-charter: chamber-of-commerce.md

1.2 Businesses must be operated on designated commercial rental plots within the Woodcrest.
1.3 Individuals applying for a business license must not have any criminal history recorded with the Woodcrest Police Department.
1.4 Individuals must not have any outstanding fines or unresolved infractions with the Woodcrest Police Department at the time of application.

### 2. Application Process
2.1 Individuals must submit a business proposal to the Chamber of Commerce for review and approval before renting a commercial plot.
2.2 The proposal must include:
   a) Business name and type (e.g. retail, service, entertainment, etc.)
   b) Detailed description of products/services offered
   c) Target customer base and how it fits into the Woodcrest community
   d) Proposed location (specific rental plot if known)
   e) Any special requirements or requests (e.g. zoning variances)
   f) Proof of any necessary permits or licenses (e.g. alcohol permit, health department certifications)
2.3 Individuals are responsible for obtaining all required permits and licenses from the appropriate Woodcrest and North Carolina authorities before submitting their proposal.

> 2.4 Proposals must be submitted via [designated in-game or out-of-game channel].

Author: I'm going to see if I can have this be something that ties into the website directly, like a form to fill out, which would either send an email or even notify in discord.

Worst case, this can be a mailbox setup like we do for Rush cards, but then it would be a one-way communication via notecard.

### 3. Review Process
3.1 The Chamber of Commerce will review each proposal to ensure it meets the following criteria:
   a) Fits within the theme and setting of a university town in North Carolina
   b) Does not significantly overlap with existing businesses in Woodcrest
   c) Provides roleplay opportunities for the community
   d) Complies with all sim rules and regulations
3.2 The Chamber may request additional information or suggest changes to the proposal before making a decision.

> 3.3 Proposals will be approved or denied within one week of submission.

Author: Given this is starting a contract, I'd rather keep the time statements to be as specific as possible.  What if we said something like this:

```suggestion
3.3 Proposals will be processed in the order they are received for each specific parcel of land. The Chamber will strive to approve, deny, or provide an "under review" status for each proposal within one week of submission. However, if additional time is needed to address any issues or concerns with the application, the Chamber reserves the right to extend the review process as necessary. The Chamber will keep the applicant informed of any delays and provide an estimated timeline for a final decision.
```

> 

Author: I'll clarify the language here, but have a separate section about the Chamber membership elsewhere

### 4. Post-Approval Steps

> 4.1 Upon approval, individuals must complete the rental process for their designated commercial plot within one week.

Author: Given that this is the rental system, it's unlikely that this will ever be handed outside of administration.  I'll see what options we have with Dexy, but between the four of us, I would hope that a week to unlock a plot should be sufficient.

It really just comes down to what options are available from Dexy.

> 4.2 Individuals must open their business within one week of renting the plot.

Author: How about:
```suggestion
4.2 Individuals must open their business within two weeks of renting the plot. If extenuating circumstances prevent the business from opening within this time frame, the individual must request for an extension to the Chamber of Commerce, including a detailed explanation of the reasons for the delay and a proposed new opening date. The Chamber will review the request and may grant an extension on a case-by-case basis.
```

Firm, but accommodating.

6.3 Sim-owned businesses will still be required to adhere to all relevant rules and regulations.

### 7. Penalties for Non-Compliance
7.1 Businesses that deviate from their approved proposal or violate any Woodcrest or North Carolina laws will face penalties, which may include:
   a) Fines or civil penalties
   b) Temporary closure or suspension of operations
   c) Eviction from the commercial rental plot
   d) In severe cases, forfeiture of any rent paid and permanent ban from operating a business in Woodcrest
7.2 The specific penalties will be determined by the Chamber of Commerce and/or sim administrators based on the nature and severity of the violation.
7.3 Individuals will have the opportunity to appeal any penalties through a formal process outlined by the Chamber.

## Required Permits and Licenses
The following types of businesses will require additional permits or licenses to operate in Woodcrest:
- Restaurants and food service: Health department certification, food handler's permits for all employees
- Bars and nightclubs: Alcohol permit from the North Carolina ABC Commission

> - Cannabis dispensaries: Dispensary license from the North Carolina Department of Health, proof of compliance with all state regulations

Author: This is a good topic to discuss for sure and agree that this should be a tangible object that can be given to individuals and be displayed in the place of business.

> - Cannabis dispensaries: Dispensary license from the North Carolina Department of Health, proof of compliance with all state regulations

Reviewer: Do we want to include anything here that people can potentially try and open businesses illegally (i.e. a food truck that serves cannabis) but they may have to face IC consequences and be told to stop it from Moderators.Maybe a "Businesses" section in the code of conduct or in variances? 

I would expect this to only be allowed by seasoned RPers so would we want to include this option in the application, at risk of encouraging it.

Is this something we want to even try? I can see it potentially being difficult to manage. I don't feel particular strong either way about this

> - Cannabis dispensaries: Dispensary license from the North Carolina Department of Health, proof of compliance with all state regulations

Author: I absolutely don't want to discourage illegal activity, just I don't think that putting it in this document is the right place for it.  Since this is really intended on being a gating mechanism for business rentals, putting something roleplay specific like that feels it would be more appropriate in one of the roleplay covenant documents.

Individuals are responsible for researching and obtaining all necessary permits and licenses before submitting their business proposal. The Chamber of Commerce can provide guidance and resources to assist in this process, but ultimately it is the individual's responsibility to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

## Zoning Variances
The following types of zoning variances are provided as examples, but not strictly limited to:

### Mixed-use property
Default zoning: Commercial rental plots are zoned for retail, service, or entertainment businesses only.
Variance request: A player wants to open a bookstore with a small café inside. They would request a variance to allow for a mixed-use property that combines retail (bookstore) and food service (café) in a single commercial plot.

### Parking requirements
Default zoning: All businesses must provide a minimum number of parking spaces based on the size and type of the establishment.

> Variance request: A player wants to open a small, walk-in only ice cream shop with limited space for parking. They would request a variance to reduce the required number of parking spaces due to the nature of their business.

Author: We can remove this; I was trying to come up with other variance requests

6.5 Sim staff retain final say in the operation and usage of sim-owned businesses, including their use within storylines and other roleplay scenarios.

### 7. Penalties for Non-Compliance
7.1 Businesses that deviate from their approved proposal or violate any Woodcrest or North Carolina laws will face penalties, which may include:
   a) Fines or civil penalties
   b) Temporary closure or suspension of operations
   c) Eviction from the commercial rental plot
   d) In severe cases, forfeiture of any rent paid and permanent ban from operating a business in Woodcrest
7.2 The specific penalties will be determined by the Chamber of Commerce and/or sim administrators based on the nature and severity of the violation.

## Required Permits and Licenses
The following types of businesses will require additional permits or licenses to operate in Woodcrest:
- Restaurants and food service: Health department certification, food handler's permits for all employees
- Bars and nightclubs: Alcohol permit from the North Carolina ABC Commission

> - Cannabis dispensaries: Dispensary license from the North Carolina Department of Health, proof of compliance with all state regulations

Reviewer: What do we mean by:

> proof of compliance with all state regulations

Author: This is vague and I'm going to remove it.  I'll include a more direct way to reference this under Non-Compliance

> ## Required Permits and Licenses
> The following types of businesses will require additional permits or licenses to operate in Woodcrest:
> - Restaurants and food service: Health department certification, food handler's permits for all employees
> - Bars and nightclubs: Alcohol permit from the North Carolina ABC Commission
> - Cannabis dispensaries: Dispensary license from the North Carolina Department of Health, proof of compliance with all state regulations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Required Permits and Licenses
8.1 The following businesses require additional permits or licenses to operate within Woodcrest:
	a) Restaurants and food service:
		- Health department certification, 
		- Food handler permit, for each employee
	b) Bars and nightclubs:
		- Alcohol permit
	c) Cannabis dispensaries: 
		- Dispensary license,
		- Dispensary compliance with all state regulations
8.2 Permits and licenses can be issued by the following organisations:
	a) Woodcrest University Clinic (WCUC):
		- Health department certification,
		- Food handler permit,
		- Dispensary license
	b) Woodcrest Police Department (WCPD):
		- Dispensary compliance with all state regulations
	c) The North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission (ABC Commission); managed by the Woodcrest Chamber of Commerce:
		- Alcohol permit
```

Please modify as required.

> Individuals are responsible for researching and obtaining all necessary permits and licenses before submitting their business proposal. The Chamber of Commerce can provide guidance and resources to assist in this process, but ultimately it is the individual's responsibility to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8.3 Individuals are responsible for researching and obtaining all necessary permits and licenses before submitting their business proposal. The Chamber of Commerce can provide guidance and resources to assist in this process, but ultimately it is the individual's responsibility to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
```
